Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
Sukhpal Singh Gilla, Oktay Cetinkayab, Stefano Marronec, Daniel Claudinod,
David Haunschilde, Leon Schlotef, Huaming Wug, Carlo Ottavianih, Xiaoyuan Liui, Sree
Pragna Machupallij, Kamalpreet Kaurk, Priyansh Aroral, Ji Lium, Ahmed Faroukn, Houbing
Herbert Songo, Steve Uhligaand Kotagiri Ramamohanaraop
aSchool of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK,
bOxford e-Research Centre (OeRC), Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK,
cDipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università della Campania “Luigi Vanvitelli”, Italy,
dQuantum Information Science Section, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA,
eDetecon International GmbH, Munich, Germany,
fDB Cargo, Berlin, Germany,
gCenter for Applied Mathematics, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China,
hDepartment of Computer Science and York Centre for Quantum Technologies, University of York, York, UK,
iFujitsu Research of America, Inc., Santa Clara, CA, USA,
jInformation Networking Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, USA,
kCymax Group Technologies, British Columbia, Canada,
lMicrosoft, Schiphol, Netherlands,
mMathematics and Computational Research Division, Argonne National Laboratory, IL, USA,
nDepartment of Computer Science, Faculty of Computers and Artificial Intelligence, South Valley University, Hurghada, Egypt,
oDepartment of Information Systems University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC), Baltimore, USA,
pRetired Professor, The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia,
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords :
Quantum Computing
Artificial Intelligence
Machine Learning
Cryptography
Cyber Security
QubitsABSTRACT
The recent development of quantum computing, which uses entanglement, superposition,
and other quantum fundamental concepts, can provide substantial processing advantages over
traditional computing. These quantum features help solve many complex problems that cannot
be solved otherwise with conventional computing methods. These problems include modeling
quantum mechanics, logistics, chemical-based advances, drug design, statistical science, sus-
tainable energy, banking, reliable communication, and quantum chemical engineering. The last
few years have witnessed remarkable progress in quantum software and algorithm creation and
quantumhardwareresearch,whichhassignificantlyadvancedtheprospectofrealizingquantum
computers. It would be helpful to have comprehensive literature research on this area to grasp
the current status and find outstanding problems that require considerable attention from the
researchcommunityworkinginthequantumcomputingindustry.Tobetterunderstandquantum
computing, this paper examines the foundations and vision based on current research in this
area. We discuss cutting-edge developments in quantum computer hardware advancement and
subsequentadvancesinquantumcryptography,quantumsoftware,andhigh-scalabilityquantum
computers.Manypotentialchallengesandexcitingnewtrendsforquantumtechnologyresearch
and development are highlighted in this paper for a broader debate.
1. Promising Age of Quantum Computing
ManyexpertsregardRichardFeynman’s1982talkasamongthefirstideasforquantumcomputing[1,2].Feynman
imagined a quantum machine that could imitate quantum physics by using the principles of quantum mechanics.
∗Correspondence to: School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary University of London, London, E1 4NS, UK.
s.s.gill@qmul.ac.uk (S.S. Gill); oktay.cetinkaya@eng.ox.ac.uk (O. Cetinkaya); stefano.marrone@unicampania.it (S.
Marrone); claudinodc@ornl.gov (D. Claudino); david.haunschild@detecon.com (D. Haunschild); leon.schlote@deutschebahn.com
(L. Schlote); whming@tju.edu.cn (H. Wu); carlo.ottaviani@york.ac.uk (C. Ottaviani); xliu@fujitsu.com (X. Liu);
smachupa@andrew.cmu.edu (S.P. Machupalli); kamalpreet.k@cymax.com (K. Kaur); priyansh.arora@microsoft.com (P. Arora);
ji.liu@anl.gov (J. Liu); ahmed.farouk@sci.svu.edu.eg (A. Farouk); songh@umbc.edu (H.H. Song); steve.uhlig@qmul.ac.uk (S.
Uhlig); rkotagiri@gmail.com (K. Ramamohanarao)
ORCID(s):0000-0002-3913-0369 (S.S. Gill)
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 1 of 15arXiv:2403.02240v4  [cs.DC]  6 Sep 2024
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
According to Feynman’s view, a computer based on quantum mechanical fundamentals might be necessary to mimic
naturaloccurrences,asNatureisfundamentallyquantummechanical[3].Theadventofquantumcomputershasopened
up new avenues for this kind of thinking, since they can harness the incredible processing power required to model
intricate quantum systems by making use of quantum mechanical features such as superposition, interference, and
entanglement [4]. Early efforts to build hardware for quantum computers moved at a snail’s pace due to challenging
technicalproblems,makingitdifficulttoshieldandcoherentlycontrolthedynamicsofquantummechanicalproperties
present at the most essential scales of nature (e.g., electron spin or photon polarization) [5].
However, quantum computing is one of the most talked-about fields (as of 2024), and its progress has been
growingatatremendouspaceinrecentyears[6].Thereisagreatdealofenthusiasmamongacademicsandbusinesses
alike to construct initial quantum computers due to their promise of providing, for certain tasks, processing powers
beyondthoseofcurrentmostpowerfulsupercomputers.Strongeffortstobuildlarge-scalequantumcomputersarenow
underwaywith severalestablished corporations(Chinese companieslike ZTE,QUDOOR andUSA basedcompanies
such as Honeywell, Intel, Google, Microsoft, and IBM), growing small and medium-sized enterprises (e.g., D-
Wave),andaspiringstartups(e.g.,Rigetti,Xanadu,Infleqtion,OriginQuantum,andIonQ).Therehasbeenenormous
advancement in quantum algorithms and quantum software in recent years, which has occurred in tandem with the
development of quantum hardware.
It is well-known that traditional digital computing relies on bits that are limited to two possible values—‘0’ or
‘1’—tostoreandprocessdata.Inquantumcomputing,thecorrespondingunitisthequantumbit(qubit)that,according
to quantum physics, may have either a value of ‘0’ or ‘1’ or exist on a superposition of the two (functionally being in
bothstatessimultaneously!)[7,8,9].Becauseofthis,quantumcomputershaveaccesstoacomputationalfield(known
as Hilbert space [10]) of huge dimension, where 𝑛qubits might be in a superposition state with 2𝑛potential values
at any one moment. Due to the exponential growth of the parameter space, problems on a large scale are expected to
be easier to solve with the advent of quantum computers. Nevertheless, developing a large-scale quantum computer
has its own set of challenges. The most demanding to mitigate is the decoherence of the quantum states on which
qubits are encoded. Decoherence happens when qubits interact with their surrounding environment and lose their
coherent features. For that it represents one of the biggest obstacles to developing large-scale quantum devices [11].
Assumingtheunavoidablepresenceofenvironmentalnoise,“NoisyIntermediateScaleQuantum(NISQ)”devices,try
to deal with imperfections and losses driven by decoherence. Reducing the probability of decoherence and creating
effective error correction procedures to overcome defects in NISQ devices are important goals of current studies in
quantumcomputing[12].Thesecondbigproblemwithmodernquantumdevicesistoidentifyapproachestoeffectively
engineer and interconnect (entangle) qubits [13]. At the moment of writing current quantum devices are able to deal
with relatively sparsely connected qubits, making it difficult to map deep quantum circuits with multiple two-qubit
gates that necessitate strong couplings between qubits [14].
1.1QuantumSupremacy: Regardlessoftechnologicalhurdles,NISQquantumcomputershaveshownpromising
computing capability in their early stages. Google’s recent proof of quantum supremacy is a major step forward for
quantum computing [15]. There is currently a worldwide race to be the first to implement quantum computing in
order to tackle a practical problem that a conventional computer cannot solve in a reasonable time — also known as
“quantum advantage” . To reach this desired level of quantum computing, it is necessary to reduce the probability
of the decoherence of qubits drastically through improvements in quantum hardware, quantum algorithms, and error
correctionduringtheupcomingyears.Alotofworkisbeingputintodevelopingandbenchmarkingquantumalgorithms
using NISQ devices. While Shor’s and Grover’s quantum algorithms were among the first that stood out in the early
1990s,hundredsofotheralgorithmshavebeeninventedsincethen.VariationalQuantumEigensolver(VQE)[16,17]
andothervariationalquantumalgorithms[18]areapopularkindofhybridquantum-classicalalgorithmthatcombines
the advantages of the two technologies. On NISQ devices, VQE algorithms have performed exceptionally well in
solvingquantummechanicalproblemsandQuantumArtificialIntelligence(QAI)tasks[19].Whilealargeandresilient
quantumcomputerisnotavailableyetandwillstillrequiresignificantadvancementsbeforeitsfullpromiseforpractical
applications can be realised, quantum computing is already available for research and prototyping scenarios with
encouraging results on current NISQ-era equipment [20].
Whenappliedtoclassicaldata,QAIhasthepotentialtogreatlyacceleratemachineintelligencetechniques[21,22].
Quantumneuralnetworks,quantumsupportvectormachines,andquantumprinciplecomponentevaluationhavebeen
studied[23,24],andsomerecentresearchreturnedencouragingfindings[25],althoughitisstillnotcompletelyknown
if quantum neural networks will provide better computing efficiency than traditional machine learning techniques.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 2 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
 •Logistics, T elecommuting, Electrical Power, Banking (for rapid Risk Estimation, Commerce, Shaky Markets 
Portfolios Improvement) and Design Robotics.  
•Digital Privacy, Medical Services (for Rapid Radiation Treatments, Accurate Diagnoses, and Solid Evidence) and 
Automotive IndustryBusinesses Applications
•Pharmaceuticals, Computer Vision, Speedy Computations, Life Sciences, and Climate Prediction.
•Resilience in Computing Systems, Quantum Algorithms and Networks, Quantum Confidentiality and SecurityAdvancements
•Confidential Data Processing, Encrypted Data Transmission, Connectivity, Detection of Attacks. 
•Surveillance, T elecommunications, Networked Quantum T echnology, Safe Credentials.Fundamental Operations
•Predictive Analytics Anticipating Trends
•Find Soutions for Complex Problems 
•Quantum Skills to Diagnose DiseasesGadget Assistances
Figure 1: Applications and Benefits of Quantum Computing.
Thereexistseveraldifferentquantumcomputingparadigms.Themostpopularonesaremeasurement-basedorone-
way quantum computing [26], adiabatic quantum computing (usually implemented in practice as quantum annealing)
[27], and the quantum circuit framework for gate-based general quantum computing [7]. Since it is possible to re-
program quantum computers according to particular issues, the quantum circuit model stands out as an especially
feasibleoption.Currently,somehigh-levelprogramminglanguagesspecifictoquantumcomputing,suchasQiskit[28],
Cirq [29], PennyLane [30], and other libraries and packages, are available to program quantum computers; however,
circuitsspecifiedwiththeselanguagesneedtobe“translated”tofittheactualquantumtopology,buildingthequantum
circuits by organising the necessary quantum gates (these are just “instructions” that are executed in sequence) and
operations according to a pre-designed architecture.
1.2ApplicationsandBenefits: Researchonquantumcomputingisblossoming,withregularexcitingnewadvances
in several areas of application and quantum engineering such as hardware, software, algorithms, error correction on
NISQ devices. Academic scientists first, but now also industry experts are investigating on problems that may find
applicationstosolvepracticalproblems.InFig.1,wesummarizesomebenefitsthatquantumcomputingmayhavefor
common users, programmers, and various business sectors by delegating key tasks.
1.3 Quantum Computing in a nutshell: A binary bit that may take on values ‘0’ or ‘1’ is the basic unit of
information of conventional computing. Quantum Computation and Information uses qubits as fundamental unit of
informationand,differentlyfromclassicalbits,theycannotonlyacquireeithervalue‘0’or‘1’,buteven‘0’and‘1’at
thesametime.Asimplemathematicalrepresentationofaqubit,inthecomputationalbasis {|0⟩,|1⟩},isconventionally
given as:
𝑎|0⟩+𝑏|1⟩, (1)
where 𝑎and𝑏are complex amplitudes ( 𝑎, 𝑏∈) superimposing the states ‘0’ and ‘1’ [2], and preserving probability
interpretationofquantumstate,i.e.,theyneedtoverifythecondition |𝑎|2+|𝑏|2= 1.Thesymbol |⟩(ket)indicatesthat
thebitofinformationisencodedinaquantumstate,exploitingoneofitsphysicaldegreeoffreedom.Usingquantum
superposition, a vast computational space becomes available allowing to solve problems of extreme complexity
[INCLUDE A REFERENCE HERE on quanutm computing basics]. Even a very limited number of qubits, 𝑁can
beusedtosolveproblemsthatareintractablewithclassicalcomputers,thankstotherapidlyexpandingcomputational
domain as an exponential function ( 2𝑁) of the total number of qubits.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 3 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
Anotherfundamentalquantumpropertyexploitedinquantumalgorithmsis Entanglement [7].Whileclassicalbits
are independent of each other when setting bit values, qubits allow for the placement of bits in an entangled state.
When entangled qubits can persist in a correlated global state, even if physically apart. As a result, all qubits in an
entangledstatecanhavetheircharacteristicschangedevenifonlyoneofthemisprobed.Whenusedfordensecoding
or quantum simulation of linked networks, entanglement becomes a valuable asset [31].
Measurement is the last stage of a quantum computation; it collapses the stochastic quantum state into a
deterministic state. Although quantum algorithms typically guarantee that the correct outcome has the highest
likelihood,thestochasticnatureoftheprocesscannotguaranteethatthecorrectoutcomeisactuallysampled.Therefore,
some classicalpost-processing (suchas majority votingor statisticalestimation) or repeatingthe computationseveral
times is usually needed to produce a final output from the raw results obtained with the quantum computer.
2. Quantum Algorithms
A quantum computer is based on the principles of quantum mechanics and uses these principles to its advantage.
Fromtheiroriginsinquantumphysicsmodelstomanymoderncomputerscienceuses,quantumalgorithmshavecome
alongway[2].Ahighlycovetedsteptowardsattainingtheprocessingcapacityofitstype,anindustrial-scalequantum
computer would certainly have ramifications in several domains, including cybersecurity and others. Daniel Simon
presentedthefirstquantummethodtobeatclassicalalgorithmsintermsofperformance[32].Deutsch-JozsaAlgorithm,
Bernstein-Vazirani Algorithm, Simon’s Algorithm, and Shor’s Algorithm were introduced to focus on problems that
require exponential queries (i.e. cutting down on the amount of computing power required to examine algorithms
and assess their balance or robustness with certainty), efficient solutions of black-box problems, faster computation,
speedup,andintegerfactorisation,anddiscretelogarithmproblems,respectively[4].Thesealgorithmswerebasedon
thequantumFouriertransform.Furthermore,Grover’salgorithmandquantumcountingweredevelopedtoconcentrate
onsearchingunstructureddatabasesformarkedentriesandgeneralisedsearches,respectively.Bothofthesealgorithms
were created based on amplitude amplification, which is a robust strategy to make quantum computers capable of
solving challenges quickly and effectively that might be impossible to solve with traditional approaches. Numerous
quantum algorithms rely on this, such as those for quantum machine learning, quantum simulation, and quantum
search.Finally,aquantumapproximateoptimisationapproachcenteredonthesolutionofgraphtheoryissueshasbeen
recentlyproposed[33].Thisapproachisbuiltonahybridquantum/classicalscheme.Fromafoundationalpointofview,
allsoftware-relatedaspectsarebasedontwodifferentcomputationalmodels,whichdeterminesomedifferencesinthe
programmingparadigmsaswellasinapplicationsandtechnicalaspects:thequantumgate[34]andquantumannealing
models [35]. The gate model uses quantum gates to perform operations on qubits. These gates manipulate qubits in a
manner similar to classical logic gates, with the ability to exploit quantum-related features such as entanglement and
superposition.Thisisauniversalcomputationalmodelinwhichtheabove-mentionedShor’sandGrover’salgorithms
can be implemented; hence, the applications based on this model have the widest range. From a technical point of
view,decoherenceisthemainproblem,anderrorcorrectionisthemostrequiredpractice.Ontheotherhand,quantum
annealing is an approximate implementation of adiabatic quantum computing, which is itself equivalent to the digital
model, which seems to be a promising alternative to the gate model for solving large optimisation problems. This
paradigmisbasedonthenaturaltendencyofquantumsystemstofindlow-energystates.Itreliesonthenaturalquantum
mechanical process of tunneling and requires maintaining a coherent quantum state over the annealing process. It is
somewhatlesssensitivetoerrorscomparedtothegatemodelbecauseitexploitsthequantumsystem’snaturaltendency
to find a low-energy state, making it robust against certain types of computational errors.
3. Technological Advances and Software Tools
The invention of quantum software is an emerging yet relatively less developed field compared to quantum
modelling and quantum technology [36]. Several quantum applications are already accessible from various plat-
forms/sources, including Google, IBM, Microsoft, and D-Wave. Quantum programming tools have been produced
at an increasing pace; however, there is a lack of excellent programming tools, similar to conventional programming
languageslikeC++andJava,andtheseapplicationsarestillratherlow-level,likeassembly-levellanguages.Anumber
ofimportantareashavebeenidentifiedinrecentresearchpertainingtosoftwareprogramsthatusequantumcomputing,
includingcodinglanguages,programmers,error-correctionfirmware,physicallevelschedulersandoptimisers,logical
levelschedulersandoptimisationtechniques,andhardwarecontrolofsoftwareupdates.Mostimportanttopicstostudy
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 4 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
in the field are [37, 38, 39]: (i) frameworks, semantics and compilation of programming language; (ii) workflows,
controlled and adjoint operations & clean and borrowed qubits and (iii) simulators. Integrating quantum algorithms
with defective equipment effectively is the goal of powerful quantum error-correcting firmware [37]. Located at the
very bottom of the quantum computing stack, error-correcting quantum firmware aids in lowering the error rate due
toflawedhardware,aswellastheintricacyandresourceconsumptionofthesystem[38].Itisenvisagedthatsoftware
managingquantumhardwarewouldhaveoutstandingperformance,beabletousesophisticatedquantummanagement
techniques,havetop-qualityeffectsatthesystemlevel,beabletoregulateforbothglobalandlocaloptimaloutcomes
through simulation, and have adequate physical schedules [39]. At this date, notwithstanding the absence of a single
programming framework/model able to overcome the others, there are different platforms for quantum computer
programming, often provided and “tied” to the provided hardware solutions. Among the most famous are: Qiskit
(QuantumInformationScienceKit)—developedbyIBM1;Cirq—developedbyGoogle2;andPyQuil—developed
byRigettiComputing3.Topushtheirsolutions,quantumdevelopersoftenreleasetheseframeworkswithopen-source
licenses and with an Application Programming Interface (API) in Python, which is a language that is straightforward
tolearn.QuantumAnnealingisfollowingthesamepath,withacoupleof“programmingframeworks”—i.e.,D-Wave
Ocean Software and Leap — both provided by D-Wave. Recently, Fujitsu’s Digital Annealer has been promising to
bring quantum-inspired technology using traditional computing platforms [40].
4. Modern Cryptography: From Quantum to Post-Quantum
The advent of quantum computers heralds a new ground-breaking era within the realm of data integrity and
cybersecurity. With improving scalable computing power, quantum computers can effortlessly break the security of
traditionalcryptosystems,relyingonfactorizationanddiscretelogarithms,bothofwhichareconsideredhardproblems
for classical computers. By constrast, quantum computers have efficient processing capabilities to solve these hard
problems within polynomial time [41]. For example, an adversary equipped with a quantum computer may break the
RSA(Rivest-Shamir-Adleman)securityinpolynomialtimebyexploitingShor’salgorithmforfactoringlargenumbers.
It is clear that such a possibility, despite not yet practical, poses potential threats to the integrity of communication
networks [42] that need to be analyzed and mitigated. In fact the potential threat represented by the Shor’s algorithm
hasledtonewdevelopmentsinclassicalcryptographicapproaches,withtheworkonpost-quantumcryptographyand
onacompletelynewparadigmtograntsecuritynamedquantumcryptography [43],ormorepreciselyQuantum-Key
Distribution (QKD). The novelty of QKD is that, instead of adding layers of security based on conventional (i.e.
computationally hard to solve) algorithms, it uses fundamental properties of quantum particles to protect information
from unauthorized parties. QKD protocols, are themselves composite algorithms where transmission of quantum
signals,encryption/decryption,signatures,authentication,andhashingareallcombined [44]toachieve(theoretically)
unconditional security.
Let’sreviseinsomemoredetailthebasicprincipleofbothquantumcryptographyandpost-quantumcryptography.
4.1 Quantum Key Distribution: Classical cryptography is endangered by the discovery of the Shor’s algorithm
because it can efficiently solve computationally hard problems upon which classical key-exchange mechanism are
based.BycontrastQuantumKeyDistribution(QKD)doesnotmakeuseofcomputationallyhardprimitives,butrelies
on the fundamental laws of quantum physics to establish security. However, it is worth to notice that QKD protocols
arealways hybrid,i.e.,theyrelyonbothquantumandclassicalcommunicationstoimplementavirtuallyimpenetrable
crypto-system, promising to protect the privacy of communication even against attacks conducted by any quantum
computers, independently from their computational power and evolution.
QKDcanbeimplementedintwospecificsetups:continuous-variable(CV-QKD)anddiscrete-variable(DV-QKD)
[43].DV-QKDusesqubitstoencodeinformationandsinglephotondetectorsareemployedbythereceivertomonitor
andquantifythepresenceofeavesdropperonthecommunicationchannel[45].Insuchawaythepartiescanquantify
the amount of information eavesdropped. By contrast, CV-QKD encodes classical information randomly modulating
phaseandamplitudeofbrightcoherentstates,anduseshomodynedetectionschemesatthereceivers,inasimilarsetup
used today by conventional optical communications [46].
An essential tenet of QKD (both for DV and CV) is rooted in quantum physics and takes the shape of the no-
cloningtheorem[47,48],whichassertsthataflawlessreplicaofarbitrary(i.e.non-orthogonal)quantumstatescannot
1https://www.ibm.com/quantum/qiskit
2https://quantumai.google/cirq
3https://github.com/rigetti/pyquil
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 5 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
becreated,withoutcorruptingtheprobedquantumstates.Thatisexploitedduringthe quantumcommunicationphase ,
when quantum particles are sent from the sender to the receiver. In fact, encoding information on non-orthogonal
quantumstates,makessothatanyefforttogaininsightsonthepropertiesofsuchastreamquantumsignalswouldresults
intheintroductionofnoise,readilyidentifiedbyeitherthekeydistributorortherecipient(theparties,conventionally
AliceandBob).Suchamechanismallowsthepartiestoquantifytheamountofinformationpotentiallyeavesdropped
(Eve) during the quantum communication. That information is crucial, because they can use it to then apply classical
protocols of error correction and privacy amplification and reducing to a negligible amount the eavesdropper’s
knowledge on the shared key. This second part of the cryptosystem is usually called classical communication phase.
Examples of QKD protocols based on the steps described above are BB84, B92 and BM92 [49, 50, 51] that use
DV-QKD, and CV-QKD protocols like [52, 53, 54].
Previous QKD protocols suffer from the relative vulnerabilities connected to imperfections and trust-ability of
devices used in practical implementations. To overcome this difficulty, and potential security threats, an even more
powerful approach to QKD has been introduced based on entanglement verification, and taking the name of Device-
Independent(DI)QKD.InthisapproachtheverificationofviolationofBellinequalitiesisusedtoverifythepresence
of entanglement between the quantum signals shared between the parties. If entanglement is present then the parties
willbeinthepositiontoshareanunconditionallysecuresequenceofbits,rulingoutanypossibilityforEvetoacquire
information on the secret-key. The first seminal work using entanglement to implement QKD has been proposed by
Ekert in his 1991 work [55]. After that many other works followed with refined security proofs [43].
DI-QKDistheultimateapproachtoestablishunconditionallysecuresecret-keyusingquantummechanicswithout
havingtospecifythephysicalimplementationofequipmentsorfixingmanypotentialquantumhackingloopholes[56].
However,DI-QKDisdifficulttoimplementanditsperformance,onapracticalscenario,arestilllimited[43]because
itrequiresloophole-freeBellinequalityviolations,whichnecessitatehigh-qualityentanglementamongdistantparties
and near-perfect quantum detection, something current technologies cannot still provide in full [57], or at least not
under commonly accepted practicality assumptions.
In recent years also Measurement Device-Independent (MDI) QKD protocols have been proposed to implement
overcome difficulties connected to the trustability of measurement devices [58, 59, 60], and Twin-field QKD [61] to
overcomethepoint-to-pointquantumsecret-keycapacity,setbythePLOBbound[62],andrecoverthesingle-repeater
scaling of end-to-end quantum capacity [63], without the need to implement a full-scale quantum repeater.
4.2Post-QuantumCryptography: Thesecurityofclassicalcryptographicprimitives(e.g.,RSA,Diffie–Hellman,
etc.) depends on the hard problems of discrete arithmetic, prime factorization of integers, and elliptic-curve discrete
logarithms. Sadly, these present-day cryptographic primitives based on such hard problems might theoretically be
solvableinabriefspanoftimeusingthepossibleapplicationsofquantumcomputers.Thepotentialattacksperformed
byquantumalgorithmsposedonconventionalcryptographicprotocols,havepromotedasenseofurgencyindesigning
alternative schemes to mitigate quantum attacks. Such alternatives are generally characterized as post-quantum
cryptography(PQC).Theseschemescaneffectivelydealwithprevalentchallengestriggeredbyquantumadversaries.
The threat represented by the potential implementation nof fast quantum algorithm able to break the conventional
algorithm used in our everyday life lead to an intense research activity on identifying candidates algorithm for the
implementation and update of communication infrastructure able to resits to attacks performed to know quantum
algorithms [64].Theprotocolsdevelopedinpost-quantumcryptographyweregenerallygroupedintofivetypes:code-
based, hash-based, lattice-based, multivariate, and supersingular curve-elliptic isogeny schemes [11].
NIST post-quantum cryptography standardization process [65] is underway to identify the specific algorithm
families and protocols to be considered secure under the potential threat of a quantum computer.
Itisworthtonoticethattheultimatecounter-measurestopreservesecurityandprivacyofcommunicationagainst
quantumeavesdroppersisquantum-keydistribution(QKD),alsoagainstthepossibilityof “harvestnow,decryptlater”
approach. In which case attackers store encrypted material until when advances on decryption technology (hardware
or software) allows to decrypt the stored content. It is clear that in case of extremely sensitive data this may represent
a threat to security that cannot be neglected, i.e., where data needs to remain confidentially protected for very long
period of time.
5. High-Scalability Quantum Computers
Although quantum technology as a whole began in the 1980s, most scientists didn’t see industrial quantum
computersasfeasibleuntiltheendofthe1990s[31].Severalcompetitors,includingacademicsandindustrialengineers
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 6 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
from throughout the world, have worked individually to construct the components of a robust quantum computer.
Variouspotentialmaterialsystemsarebeingresearchedtodesignandimplementquantumbitsandgates.Analogand
digital methods are the two most common ways to physically build a quantum computer. The preservation of qubit
statesowingtodecoherenceisamajorobstacletothebuildingoferror-freelargequantumcomputers.Thecomplexity
of quantum circuits needed to tackle real-world issues could be substantial, leading to deleterious cumulative error
rates, regardless of error rates attained below 1%[66]. For this reason, the correction of quantum errors is currently a
hot topic of academic interest. On October 23, 2019, Google Quantum AI and NASA announced a demonstration of
quantum computation that would take a long time on any typical traditional computer [15]. The successful resolution
of a realistic everyday issue on a quantum computer is anticipated to necessitate much more research, despite the fact
thatthisstudyaccomplishedanimportantstepforthecurrentbatchofquantumcomputers.Importantly,IBMscientists
demonstrated that identical computation can be executed far more efficiently on a conventional supercomputer [67].
5.1Super-fastQuantumMachines: The“quantumsupremacy”ofquantummachinesoverconventionalcomput-
ers proves that the former can do very computationally intensive jobs on a conventional computer far more quickly.
In the quantum world, “quantum advantage” is an additional important phrase. A more realistic concept would be
“quantum advantage”, which deals with solving a practical, real-world issue that cannot be effectively addressed on
a traditional computer, as opposed to the theoretical “quantum supremacy” that would imply resolving a challenging
issue on any conventional processor [2]. Quantum superiority has been shown, but finding real-world problems that
quantum computers can effectively tackle remains unsolved mainly due to the decoherence of quantum bits. Most
of the current generation of quantum computers is cumbersome and underpowered due to the materials used, which
must be maintained at superconducting (extremely low) temperatures; yet, the promise of prospective commercial
quantum computers is undeniable [68]. The current popularity of traditional computers and their meteoric rise in the
1950s provide the impetus for the possible advantages of industrial quantum computers. Older classical computers
were cumbersome and required constant cooling, just like modern quantum computers. We may theoretically expect
strongcommercialquantumsystemstoattain“quantumadvantage”inthenot-too-distantfuture,muchastheArtificial
Intelligence (AI) concept began to take shape during the initial stages of traditional computing devices, even though
these machines couldn’t have possibly handled the computations needed for AI [69].
5.2 Quantum Computers for Business World: The goal of cryptanalysis is to uncover the hidden features of a
database. To decipher encrypted messages, it is necessary to bypass their cryptographic safeguards [11]. To encrypt
data transmission with banking as well as additional network nodes, one common method is the RSA algorithm [70].
Ifamassivelyerror-correctedquantummachinecouldbebuilt,thequantumtechniquethatShorcreatedin1994might
theoreticallycracktheoperationalRSAencryption.Thishighlightsthenecessityforthedevelopmentofpost-quantum
algorithmsforencryptionthatareresilientagainstcommercialquantumcomputers.Thesedays,manymajorcompanies
place a premium on effective search strategies and the ability to effectively filter through massive datasets. When
compared to conventional algorithms in terms of query complexity, Grover’s optimum quantum algorithm from 1996
may significantly accelerate search across huge amounts of data [71]. Modern database management systems like
Oraclearen’trobustenoughtohandleGrover’salgorithmintheactualworld;hence,newsoftwarethatmimicsOracle’s
functionality in the quantum realm is required [72]. Approximation, rather than precision, is used to solve equations
in many branches of computer research, including numerical weather forecasting and mathematical chemistry. In a
weather/climateforecastingmodel,forinstance,theparameterisationapproachesemployedtosimulatesub-grid-level
phenomena are a direct result of the computing limitations [19]. The propagation of inaccuracies in the system of
equation solutions brought about by these approximate parameterisations can have an impact on the decision-making
process. Using commercially available quantum machines, we may be able to solve the equations exactly. In order to
enhancetheexistingproductionprocess,whichhasasignificantcarbonfootprint,thismightshedlightonhowvarious
chemicals are used to manufacture fertilisers. Quantum mechanical phenomena, chemical engineering, transpiration,
superconductors,andmagneticsmayallbeexploitedwiththehelpofcommercialquantummachines[72].Investigation
at the concept level has begun utilising accessible, comparatively less powerful quantum computers, even though
a scalable industrial quantum computer has yet to be developed and may require substantial additional research. A
beryllium hydride molecule was recently simulated on a seven-qubit quantum processor by IBM [17]. In the future, a
numberofapplicationsareanticipatedtogainpopularity,includingreal-timeconsumerandtransportationmodelling,
medical diagnosis by rapid database comparison, and power supply and demand balancing. However, the creation
of commercial quantum computers will inevitably expose several other sectors and applications to risks, including
communications,vitalinfrastructure,banking,thedistributedledger(blockchain),andcryptocurrencies,amongothers.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 7 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
5.3 Commercial Quantum Computing Infrastructure Specifications: More than a hundred laboratories,
including those associated with the government and universities, are working together on a global scale to develop,
build, and monitor qubit systems [68]. Production of commercial quantum machines is now underway at several big
firms and a plethora of aspiring start-ups. In addition to creating quantum bits and gates, a commercial quantum
machine would also need complex classical management and wiring, including cooling systems, user interfaces,
networks, data storage capacities, and electromagnetic fields.
5.4ScalableCommercialQuantumComputingManufacturingChallenges: Thebiggesttechnicalproblemthat
needstobesolvedbeforeanindustrial-gradequantummachinecanbefullyfunctionalisnoiseordecoherence,which
makesquantumprocessingmistakes(destroysentanglementofqubits)andstopsquantumcomputingbenefits.Untila
stablequbitcanberealised,itsstartingstatemustbeestablished,andgatesandnetworksmustalsobedeveloped.Even
thoughphotonsmaintaintheircoherentstateforanextendedperiodoftime,itisdifficulttoconstructquantumcircuits
using them. Companies like IBM, Google, Rigetti, and others are building quantum machines using quantum circuits
basedonsuperconductivity.Unfortunately,thereisstillaneedtodevelopstrategiesforerrorcorrectionormoderation
due to the poor fidelity of these qubits, especially in two-qubit operations. If a quantum circuit utilises five or fewer
qubits,wecanbuildandoperateitonIBM’sfive-qubitcloudprocessor,whichwasmadepubliclyavailablein2016.In
addition to their newly revealed 433-qubit quantum computer, IBM now provides cloud usage of quantum machines
with up to 65 qubits.
5.5PresentlyAccessibleInfrastructure: In2016,IBMunveileditsfive-qubitIBMQuantumExperiencequantum
computer [73]. Along with the system’s release, a user manual and an interactive chat were made available. Rights to
engage via quantum assembly language, a user-friendly interface, and a simulation extension were among the many
features introduced to the IBM Quantum Experience later in 2017 [74]. After that, IBM released Qiskit, a tool that
enhanced quantum processor coding. In addition, they established the quantum awards program and created a system
withsixteenqubits.SuperconductingqubitshousedinadilutionrefrigeratorconstitutethehardwareofIBM’squantum
computers. The quantum composer is the name of the application’s user interface (GUI) that consumers engage with.
Whenwritingquantumassemblycode,quantumcomposeristhetoolofchoice.Quantumexperimentsandalgorithms
may be more easily developed with the help of the Graphical User Interface (GUI). One can also choose to use a
simulatorinsteadofarealQuantumProcessingUnit(QPU).Torunquantumcomputationsthroughtheirpaces,Rigetti
Computing provides a Forest framework as a cloud-based quantum computing utility. A quantum processor from
Foresthasover36qubits,anditispossibletoutilizePythontodohybridizedconventionalandquantumcomputations.
The European cloud computing provider QuTech offers the quantum platform Quantum Inspire as part of its service
offering.Withoutinvestinginorconstructingaphysicalquantumcomputer,userscanaccesstheprocessingpowerof
quantum algorithms using cloud-based quantum computing platforms.
6. Widening the Debate: New Trends and Potential Challenges
In light of the current study, we have been able to pinpoint a number of topics in quantum computing that are
still being investigated. Simulating complicated quantum processes has been the focus of much study, and post-
quantum cryptography is now at its pinnacle. Fig. 2 summarises the main findings and recommendations that can
be utilised by future researchers to further quantum computing research. In the realm of quantum technology, new
fields of study are taking shape, including automation, handling energy, computer security, decentralised quantum
computing, complicated mathematical chemistry and drug design [2]. It could take over a decade for these domains
to fully implement quantum computing when they are first introduced. People have unrealistically high hopes for
isothermalquantumcomputing,quantummanagement,andquantumsecurity.Assumingtheyfallwithintheambitof
quantum computing, their development is anticipated to take short time [75]. There has been an excess of optimism
around several areas of quantum technology, including the Internet, error-corrected quantum technology, digital
information exploration, quantum-aided AI, and quantum-based satellite communications [76]. We have uncovered
severalunansweredquestionsandpotentialavenuesforfurtherstudy,allofwhicharesubjecttoongoinginvestigation
on a worldwide scale.
6.1 Technological and Developmental Challenges: The primary problem with quantum technology is its
vulnerability, which arises from two main sources: 1) the fact that qubits have a very short coherence period (which
is very qubit technology dependent) since, due to their superconductivity, they lose their data extremely often. 2)
Developing a quantum computer with minimal errors is challenging since quantum processes are unreliable because
of the relatively substantial rate of errors needing a huge number of qubits for error handling. Additionally, error
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 8 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
 
- Statistical Modelling of Climate  
- Numerical weather predictions  
- Global Warming and Carbon Neutrality  Quantum 
Computing  
Climate 
Modelling  
Figure 2: New Trends and Potential Challenges in Quantum Computing.
correctioninquantumtechnologyisfarmorechallengingthaninconventionalcomputingduetothefollowingreasons:
(a) quantum errors are ongoing (including the two magnitudes and stages), (b) it is not possible to replicate unknown
quantum states, and (c) evaluation may degrade a quantum state and erase the information in qubits. A large number
of physical qubits are needed to execute a quantum algorithm successfully; this necessitates a tight and constant link
between the classical structure and the quantum device, which in turn creates a massive control burden. Additionally,
the connection and overhead costs increase the complexity of the run-time control, design, and installation for
quantumcomputingprocesses.Atthemoment,thequbitcountservesasameasureofquantumcomputingequipment’s
computational capacity. However, this metric is off by a significant margin, and it raises questions about the viability
of supercomputer-level quantum machines with over a thousand qubits. Qubit design necessitates an efficient cooling
component to manage heat, which AI-driven systems may be able to do. This increases scalability and allows for the
solution of dynamically scaled, tricky issues.
6.2 Resilient and Sustainable Quantum Modelling: Since the actual application of quantum error mitigation
remains a matter of wide debate, it is difficult to achieve trustworthy and fault-tolerant quantum computers. The
sensitive nature of quantum states necessitates operating bits at extremely cold temperatures and requires high
precision manufacturing [44]. Accurately measuring the full quantum state is similarly difficult, making verification
a difficult task. When compared to conventional computing, the likelihood of calculation mistakes is much higher.
Quantum structures cannot function properly without a reliable method of error correction. In order to facilitate
better verification of exact manufacturing restrictions, further reevaluation of quantum communication infrastructure
isrequired.However,duetostricttolerancesandtheneedtopreventusingpoorlypositionedqubitstominimiseerror,
testing qubits after manufacture is a challenging task. To achieve sufficient reliability to enable sustained quantum
computation, iterative error mitigation is required [36]. To provide trustworthy service in the years to come, state-
of-the-art AI/ML-based methods may be utilised for automatic error identification and rectification on the fly [77].
Nonetheless, it results in additional expenses for training AI/ML methods [78].
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 9 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
However,improvingthedependabilityofcomputationsdoesnotonlypassthroughmorereliablehardware.Intheir
seminalwork,Avižienisetal.[79]definesataxonomyofdependablecomputingreportingapplicablecountermeasures
athardwareandsoftwarelevels.Softwaretechniquestoimprovetraditionalcomputationsandtotoleratehardwarefaults
are nowadays a common practice in computer engineering. The challenges are to extend such software engineering
practice to pursue highly dependable quantum programs [80]; on the other hand, correct-by-construction is still a
valid aim of software engineering, also applied to quantum computing: the application to quantum of model-driven
engineering,formalmodelling,advancedverificationandvalidationtechniquesareotherfuturechallengestodealwith
[74].
6.3 Quantum ML & QAI: The use of principal component analysis, quantifying vectors, classifiers, regression,
andstochasticmodellingarecommontoolsusedbymachinelearningscientists.Usingquantumcomputerstomanage
massive datasets with gadgets ranging from 100 to 1000 qubits may increase the effectiveness and scalability of
AI methods. Additionally, by rapidly creating and evaluating certain statistical distributions, including training in
conventionalandquantumgenerativealgorithms,quantumcomputersmightpiquethecuriosityofthefieldofmachine
learning. As a result of the increasing amount of inputs (the number of participants) for quantum recommendation
algorithms, it is becoming increasingly challenging to complete the task in a timely manner. Millions of qubits are
requiredtodealwithbigdatasetsandpresentdemand.Bysupplyingcomputationalpowerandothermachinelearning
tasks,hybridquantum-classicalalgorithmscanovercomethischallenge[72].Limitedqubitconnectionandincreased
decoherence in the qubits caused by the device’s intrinsic noise are two additional important problems. The use of
sophisticated AI/ML can improve scalability and provide additional processing capacity to manage massive amounts
of data produced by different Internet of Things (IoT) gadgets [81].
6.4 Power Control and Management: Modern supercomputers and cloud servers need a great deal of electrical
power to tackle various issues, making managing energy a major difficulty. When performing a specific activity,
quantum computers are anticipated to use less energy compared in comparison. However, a quantum computer could
consistently do massive computations with less power, cutting costs and reducing greenhouse gases even more. It
can find the best answer with the least amount of energy because its qubits can represent both zeros and ones
simultaneously for superposition (though entanglement or interference is also needed for computation), in contrast to
classical computers’ usage of binary bits (0 or 1). Quantum processors use less power since they operate at a shallow
temperature,andbecausetheyaresuperconductingandhavenoresistance,theydon’tgenerateanyheat[72].Thetwo
halvesofanintegratedapplicationaretheextremelyenergeticandlow-energycomponents.Classicalcomputinguses
thecloudtoexecutethelow-energypart,whereasquantumcomputinghandlesthehigh-energyportion[72].Therefore,
hybridcomputing,whichcombinesquantumandconventionalcomputing,canaddressthesetypesofchallengessince
itsignificantlyreducesenergyconsumptionandexpenses.Toaddressthemostdifficultbusinessissuesofthepresent,
furtherresearchisrequiredpriortousinghybridcomputing.UtilisingAI,quantumcomputersarecapableofimproving
processing speed, dependability, and confidentiality [77]. However, this comes at a cost—a tremendous quantity of
energy is required to power them and manage their temperature with cooling devices. Renewable energy sources, in
conjunctionwithbrownpower,willbeabletoprovidetheenergyneedsforsuchquantumcomputersinthedecadesto
come.
6.5 Quantum Web/Internet: The advent of the quantum Internet has greatly improved computing power and
opened the door for novel forms of communication, paving the way for decentralised quantum computing. The usage
of quantum mechanics principles introduces a number of difficulties in the development of the quantum Internet, the
mostsignificantofwhicharetheprohibitionsonreplication,quantummeasurement,teleportation,andentanglement.
Abasicpremiseofconventionalcomputing—theerror-controlmechanism—isnowcompletelyirrelevantinthecontext
ofquantumcomputing.InordertobuildthequantumInternet,aradicalchangefromthecurrentclassicalapproachto
networkingdesignisrequired[44].Furthermore,decoherenceresultsfromqubitinteractionswiththeirenvironments
due to the fragility of qubits and the gradual loss of qubit-to-environment information [82]. Quantum computing has
additional difficulties with efficient data transformation due to long-distance entanglement dispersion. It will be more
difficult in the eventual quantum Internet to save the specifics of processes executed, which is a major drawback of
current quantum computing systems that rely on massive amounts of storage for processing and connectivity.
6.6TheRoboticsViewofQuantum: RobotsemployGraphicsProcessingUnits(GPUs)totacklecomputationally
heavyproblemsinindustrieslikepharmaceuticals,logistics,encryption,andbanking,wherebytheadditionofquantum
computing may significantly accelerate computations. Robots powered by quantum technology may also use cloud-
based quantum computing resources to address a variety of problems [72]. Modern industrial robots with improved
sensingcapabilities,madepossiblebyquantumcomputing,maydetectmanyjetengineproblemssimultaneously[68].
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 10 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
Inaddition,bymakinguseoftwoessentialaspectsofquantumcomputing—parallelismandentanglement—quantum
image processing aids in the optimal understanding of visual knowledge as well as the efficient preservation and
management of image data. Robots powered by AI are solving a wide range of issues by mining graphs for hidden
insights,butthecomplexitygrowsexponentiallyasdatasetsgetlarger.Byutilisingquantumrandomwalksratherthan
graphsearch,quantumcomputingisabletodecreaseperformance.Inaddition,quantumneuralnetworksmayimprove
machine activities and detect instances of joint friction and motion, two additional major kinematics concerns. This
meanstheycanhandlemechanicalandroboticmovementsaswell.Inaddition,thereisanotherdifficultchallengethat
maybetackledusingquantumalgorithms:determiningwhythereisadiscrepancybetweenthepredictedandobserved
behaviours. The potential applications of quantum-reinforced learning might optimise robotic machine motion by
addressing issues like joint friction and instances of inertia.
6.7 Simulations for Advanced Quantum Research: In the near future, small-scale "quantum simulators" with
50–100qubitsofcomputingpowermaybeaccessible,allowingquantumcomputerstomodelcomplicatedbiological,
physical, and chemical issues [72]. To comprehend and utilise quantum technology, it is necessary to combine the
knowledge of several experts with the essentials of conventional computing [69]. In addition, quantum simulators
can mimic the natural system and solve complicated issues in a controlled environment, allowing researchers to
study the interplay of several parameters—questions that would be impossible to accomplish using conventional
or supercomputer systems. When developing quantum computers, simulators can make use of entanglement and
superposition,twooftheirkeyfeatures[74].Toconductlarge-sizedandcomplicatedoperationsconnectedtobiology
and chemistry with optimum outcomes, the scalability of simulations needs to be increased in the future.
6.8 Modern Cryptography: Cryptography is essential for the safety of Internet communication, embedded
medical equipment, and services. However, once big quantum computers are available, they will compromise the
several commonly employed cryptosystems. Cryptographic algorithms, often known as public-key algorithms, are
referred to as post-quantum cryptography. With post-quantum cryptography, it is presumed that the assailant used
a massive quantum computer to launch the assault, and these systems adapt to remain safe in this scenario [11].
Authenticityandsecrecymustbepreservedinpost-quantumcryptographyinordertothwartvariousassaults.Generally
speaking, six methods—symmetric key quantum resistance, code-based, hash-based, multifaceted, and lattice-based
encryption—are the primary focus of post-quantum cryptography investigation. Finding the correct places to include
agility is a different issue within post-quantum cryptography. So, it’s important to design ulterior systems with the
ability to anticipate potential security issues. In addition, new automated techniques for fault detection and adaptive
fixation during runtime are required for the validation and testing of designs [5]. A further unresolved issue is the
necessity to integrate agility into old programs in order to reconfigure existing equipment with security protocols.
Research in the future should focus on developing code-based systems that are more secure and produce results with
lesslatency.Asaresult,researchintotherelativemeritsoflatency,security,anddatathroughputisessential.Ourgoal
istoachievehighprocessingandcommunicationspeedswhilemaintainingsecurity.Therehastobetheformalisation
of several standards in order to accommodate the shift to post-quantum cryptography in applications that operate in
real-time. Understanding post-quantum method options is necessary for coordination with vital infrastructure, rescue
services, mobile Internet financial services, and distance learning. Additionally, various methods can be chosen to
hasten the transfer.
6.9 Statistical Modelling of Future Climate: Improvements in computerised weather forecasting abilities
occurred in the 1950s concurrently with the introduction of classical computers. Forecasts for the climate have come
a long way in the years since, though. Though advancements in software and hardware have accelerated this trend,
the use of bits, or 0s and 1s, as the building blocks of conventional computers has stymied progress. Highly powerful
computers are constructed by stacking conventional computers to handle the massive amounts of computation that
are needed. Every day, these supercomputers crunch numbers to predict what the planet’s atmosphere, seas, and land
willdo.Forpracticalusesinsociety,suchasfloodprojections,metropolitanmodelling,undergroundflowmodelling,
and related complicated tasks, today’s advanced forecasts require significant improvements [19]. The current state of
computing power has impeded these advancements. The future global computer systems might be able to operate at
significantlygreatertemporalandspatialdetailifcommercialquantumcomputersbecomefeasible.Numericalweather
forecasts using quantum computers require careful investigation. Since conventional computers’ constraints generate
inaccurate, high-resolution forecasts, numerical weather forecasting can benefit from quantum computing. With the
processingcapabilityoftraditionalcomputersbeingaconstraint,thescientificobjectiveistosolvecomplicatedpartial
differential equations on the three-dimensional in natural spherical air and sea.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 11 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
6.10 Quantum Cloud Computing: With the eventual widespread availability of robust quantum computers,
unconditionally secured quantum cloud computing has the potential to play a significant role in a range of practical
applications [4]. It could become considerably easier for the customer’s work if there were a few strong quantum-
computer nodes in the cloud. In order to transmit their work and related qubits, clients would have to interact with
quantum servers using a quantum connection. There have been attempts to prove blind quantum computing through
experimentation, in which quantum servers are unaware of the inputs, delegations, calculations, or outputs [20]. The
ubiquitousandpotentquantumclustershavestymiedtheseadvancements.Methodsforerror-freequantumencryption,
digital encryption basic concepts, and key distribution in a quantum cloud computing setting, as well as quantum
approaches for gaining control in the cloud, are all covered in the following works: cryptographic verification of
quantumcomputing,fault-tolerantsecurequantumcomputations.Finally,inordertoimplementwidespreadquantum
computing on a massive scale, research into a safe and effective quantum cloud computing platform is essential.
Additionally, the quantum computing industry will benefit from using clouds as a means of storing, processing, and
disseminating information [74]. To overcome issues with network speed and latency that arise during the running of
tiny activities in these systems, fog/edge computing is a viable solution [78]. The concept of blockchain may also be
applied to the provision of reliable and safe services [31].
7. Summary of Findings, Take-Aways and Conclusions
There are several unanswered questions and some good ideas for where to go from here. To date, it has been
unclear how to combine these performance features into a single quantum computing approach. In order to construct
a quantum computer capable of concurrent activities, a quantum computing approach that enables quantum I/O to
havealltherequiredclassifiedpropertiesisimportant.Apost-quantumcryptographysystemisdevelopedtosafeguard
conventional cryptographic basics and protocols by using the computational power of a quantum computer, which
can solve mathematical issues in milliseconds. In order to make symmetrical cryptography basics and algorithms
more resistant to the widely-known quantum assaults, post-quantum cryptography was developed. Additionally, the
difficulties in scaling up the number of qubits that have been actually realised thus far mean that modern commercial
quantum computers have yet to be capable of replacing conventional supercomputers. It is uncertain when that may
occur.Thereiscurrentlynoclearindicationofwhenquantumcomputerswillbegintosupplantconventionalcomputers
in difficult tasks, despite the fact that the next decade will be absolutely thrilling for industrial quantum computing.
Even if quantum computing does become feasible, digital supercomputers will continue to exist as a complement to
potential quantum computers. The question of how to effectively operate an algorithm with quantum properties is a
critical one for designers. There is significant control overhead due to the high number of physical qubits that are
necessary, which in turn require constant and tight communication between the classical substrate and the quantum
device. Due to the ongoing issue of the correction of quantum errors, it is difficult to accomplish trustworthy and
resilient quantum calculations. The sensitive nature of quantum states necessitates operating bits at extremely cold
temperatures and precise manufacture. Additionally, using quantum computing to manage a massive dataset with an
extensive number of gadgets (100–1000 qubits) might enhance the effectiveness and scalability of AI methods. To
realisticallyapplyhybridcomputing(quantumandconventionalcomputing)andtackletoday’smostdifficultbusiness
challenges,furthereffortisrequired.Theadventofquantumcomputingwillhavefar-reachingbenefitsformanyother
areas, including computer security, biology, economics, and the production of new substances.
Finally,thisarticleoffersavisionandidentifiesvariouspotentialchallengesonthetopicofquantumcomputing.It
hasbeenfoundthatentanglementandsuperposition,twoquantummechanicsinstances,areanticipatedtobecrucialfor
resolvingcomputerissues.Wediscussedanumberofquantumsoftwaremethodsandtechnologies,industrialquantum
computers,andcryptographyafterquantumcomputers.Finally,wehighlightanumberofconcernsthathaveyettobe
solved, as well as promising new prospects for research and development in the field of quantum technology.
Acknowledgements
Ji Liu acknowledges support from the DOE-SC Office of Advanced Scientific Computing Research AIDE-QC
project under contract number DE-AC02-06CH11357.
References
[1] T. Hey, “Richard Feynman and computation,” Contemporary Physics , vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 257–265, 1999.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 12 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
[2] J. Preskill, “Quantum computing 40 years later,” in Feynman Lectures on Computation , pp. 193–244, CRC Press, 2023.
[3] V.Silva,“RichardFeynman,demigodofphysics,fatherofthequantumcomputer,”in QuantumComputingbyPractice:PythonProgramming
in the Cloud with Qiskit and IBM-Q , pp. 49–85, Springer, 2023.
[4] Z.Yang,M.Zolanvari,andR.Jain,“Asurveyofimportantissuesinquantumcomputingandcommunications,” IEEECommunicationsSurveys
& Tutorials , 2023.
[5] M. Mikkelsen, J. Berezovsky, N. Stoltz, L. Coldren, and D. Awschalom, “Optically detected coherent spin dynamics of a single electron in a
quantum dot,” Nature Physics , vol. 3, no. 11, pp. 770–773, 2007.
[6] S. S. Gill, H. Wu, P. Patros, C. Ottaviani, P. Arora, V. C. Pujol, D. Haunschild, A. K. Parlikad, O. Cetinkaya, H. Lutfiyya, et al., “Modern
computing: Vision and challenges,” Telematics and Informatics Reports , vol. 13, pp. 1–38, 2024.
[7] M. A. Nielsen and I. L. Chuang, Quantum computation and quantum information . Cambridge university press, 2010.
[8] S. Nadj-Perge, S. Frolov, E. Bakkers, and L. P. Kouwenhoven, “Spin–orbit qubit in a semiconductor nanowire,” Nature, vol. 468, no. 7327,
pp. 1084–1087, 2010.
[9] N.Hendrickx,W.Lawrie,L.Petit,A.Sammak,G.Scappucci,andM.Veldhorst,“Asingle-holespinqubit,” Naturecommunications ,vol.11,
no. 1, p. 3478, 2020.
[10] A. Vourdas, “Quantum systems with finite Hilbert space,” Reports on Progress in Physics , vol. 67, no. 3, p. 267, 2004.
[11] A. Kumar et al., “Securing the future internet of things with post-quantum cryptography,” Security and Privacy , vol. 5, no. 2, p. e200, 2022.
[12] J. Preskill, “Quantum computing in the nisq era and beyond,” Quantum, vol. 2, p. 79, 2018.
[13] J. Howard, A. Lidiak, C. Jameson, B. Basyildiz, K. Clark, T. Zhao, M. Bal, J. Long, D. P. Pappas, M. Singh, et al., “Implementing two-qubit
gates at the quantum speed limit,” Physical Review Research , vol. 5, no. 4, p. 043194, 2023.
[14] M.AbuGhanemandH.Eleuch,“Two-qubitentanglinggatesforsuperconductingquantumcomputers,” ResultsinPhysics ,vol.56,p.107236,
2024.
[15] F. Arute, K. Arya, R. Babbush, D. Bacon, J. C. Bardin, R. Barends, R. Biswas, S. Boixo, F. G. Brandao, D. A. Buell, et al., “Quantum
supremacy using a programmable superconducting processor,” Nature, vol. 574, no. 7779, pp. 505–510, 2019.
[16] A. Peruzzo, J. McClean, P. Shadbolt, M.-H. Yung, X.-Q. Zhou, P. J. Love, A. Aspuru-Guzik, and J. L. O’brien, “A variational eigenvalue
solver on a photonic quantum processor,” Nature communications , vol. 5, no. 1, p. 4213, 2014.
[17] A. Kandala, A. Mezzacapo, K. Temme, M. Takita, M. Brink, J. M. Chow, and J. M. Gambetta, “Hardware-efficient variational quantum
eigensolver for small molecules and quantum magnets,” nature, vol. 549, no. 7671, pp. 242–246, 2017.
[18] M. Cerezo, A. Arrasmith, R. Babbush, S. C. Benjamin, S. Endo, K. Fujii, J. R. McClean, K. Mitarai, X. Yuan, L. Cincio, et al., “Variational
quantum algorithms,” Nature Reviews Physics , vol. 3, no. 9, pp. 625–644, 2021.
[19] M.Singh etal.,“Quantumartificialintelligenceforthescienceofclimatechange,”in ArtificialIntelligence,MachineLearningandBlockchain
in Quantum Satellite, Drone and Network , pp. 199–207, CRC Press, 2022.
[20] A. D. Córcoles, A. Kandala, A. Javadi-Abhari, D. T. McClure, A. W. Cross, K. Temme, P. D. Nation, M. Steffen, and J. M. Gambetta,
“Challenges and opportunities of near-term quantum computing systems,” Proceedings of the IEEE , vol. 108, no. 8, pp. 1338–1352, 2019.
[21] M.Krenn,J.Landgraf,T.Foesel,andF.Marquardt,“Artificialintelligenceandmachinelearningforquantumtechnologies,” PhysicalReview
A, vol. 107, no. 1, p. 010101, 2023.
[22] J.Biamonte,P.Wittek,N.Pancotti,P.Rebentrost,N.Wiebe,andS.Lloyd,“Quantummachinelearning,” Nature,vol.549,no.7671,pp.195–
202, 2017.
[23] M. Mafu and M. Senekane, “Design and implementation of efficient quantum support vector machine,” in 2021 International Conference on
Electrical, Computer and Energy Technologies (ICECET) , pp. 1–4, IEEE, 2021.
[24] P. Rebentrost, M. Mohseni, and S. Lloyd, “Quantum support vector machine for big data classification,” Physical review letters , vol. 113,
no. 13, p. 130503, 2014.
[25] C. Ding, T.-Y. Bao, and H.-L. Huang, “Quantum-inspired support vector machine,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning
Systems, vol. 33, no. 12, pp. 7210–7222, 2021.
[26] D. Browne and H. Briegel, “One-way quantum computation,” Quantum information: From foundations to quantum technology applications ,
pp. 449–473, 2016.
[27] T. Albash and D. A. Lidar, “Adiabatic quantum computation,” Reviews of Modern Physics , vol. 90, no. 1, p. 015002, 2018.
[28] A.Cross,“Theibmqexperienceandqiskitopen-sourcequantumcomputingsoftware,”in APSMarchmeetingabstracts ,vol.2018,pp.L58–
003, 2018.
[29] B.Heim,M.Soeken,S.Marshall,C.Granade,M.Roetteler,A.Geller,M.Troyer,andK.Svore,“Quantumprogramminglanguages,” Nature
Reviews Physics , vol. 2, no. 12, pp. 709–722, 2020.
[30] V. Bergholm, J. Izaac, M. Schuld, C. Gogolin, S. Ahmed, V. Ajith, M. S. Alam, G. Alonso-Linaje, B. AkashNarayanan, A. Asadi, et al.,
“Pennylane: Automatic differentiation of hybrid quantum-classical computations,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.04968 , 2018.
[31] S.S.Gill,“Quantumandblockchainbasedserverlessedgecomputing:Avision,model,newtrendsandfuturedirections,” InternetTechnology
Letters, p. e275, 2021.
[32] D. R. Simon, “On the power of quantum computation,” SIAM journal on computing , vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 1474–1483, 1997.
[33] E. Farhi, J. Goldstone, and S. Gutmann, “A quantum approximate optimization algorithm,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1411.4028 , 2014.
[34] C. P. Williams, Quantum Gates , pp. 51–122. London: Springer London, 2011.
[35] W.Du,B.Li,andY.Tian,“Quantumannealingalgorithms:Stateoftheart,” JisuanjiYanjiuyuFazhan/ComputerResearchandDevelopment ,
vol. 45, no. 9, p. 1501 – 1508, 2008.
[36] M.DeStefano,F.Pecorelli,D.DiNucci,F.Palomba,andA.DeLucia,“Softwareengineeringforquantumprogramming:Howfararewe?,”
Journal of Systems and Software , vol. 190, p. 111326, 2022.
[37] M. A. Serrano, J. A. Cruz-Lemus, R. Perez-Castillo, and M. Piattini, “Quantum software components and platforms: Overview and quality
assessment,” ACM Computing Surveys , vol. 55, no. 8, pp. 1–31, 2022.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 13 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
[38] R. Pérez-Castillo, M. A. Serrano, and M. Piattini, “Software modernization to embrace quantum technology,” Advances in Engineering
Software, vol. 151, p. 102933, 2021.
[39] D. Vietz, J. Barzen, F. Leymann, and K. Wild, “On decision support for quantum application developers: categorization, comparison, and
analysis of existing technologies,” in International Conference on Computational Science , pp. 127–141, Springer, 2021.
[40] M. Aramon, G. Rosenberg, E. Valiante, T. Miyazawa, H. Tamura, and H. G. Katzgraber, “Physics-inspired optimization for quadratic
unconstrained problems using a digital annealer,” Frontiers in Physics , vol. 7, no. APR, 2019.
[41] A.Singh,K.Dev,H.Siljak,H.D.Joshi,andM.Magarini,“Quantuminternet—applications,functionalities,enablingtechnologies,challenges,
and research directions,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials , vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 2218–2247, 2021.
[42] P.W.Shor,“Polynomial-timealgorithmsforprimefactorizationanddiscretelogarithmsonaquantumcomputer,” SIAMreview ,vol.41,no.2,
pp. 303–332, 1999.
[43] S. Pirandola, L. Andersen, U., L. Banchi, M. Berta, D. Bunandar, R. Colbeck, D. Englund, T. Gehring, C. Lupo, C. Ottaviani, J. L. Pereira,
M. Razavi, J. Shamsul Shaari, M. Tomamichel, V. C. Usenko, G. Vallone, P. Villoresi, and W. P., “Advances in quantum cryptography,”
Advances in Optics and Photonics , vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 1012–1236, 2020.
[44] S. Pirandola and S. L. Braunstein, “Physics: Unite to build a quantum internet,” Nature, vol. 532, no. 7598, pp. 169–171, 2016.
[45] G. Zhang, J. Y. Haw, H. Cai, F. Xu, S. Assad, J. F. Fitzsimons, X. Zhou, Y. Zhang, S. Yu, J. Wu, et al., “An integrated silicon photonic chip
platform for continuous-variable quantum key distribution,” Nature Photonics , vol. 13, no. 12, pp. 839–842, 2019.
[46] T. Matsuura, K. Maeda, T. Sasaki, and M. Koashi, “Finite-size security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution with digital signal
processing,” Nature communications , vol. 12, no. 1, p. 252, 2021.
[47] P. James, “The concept of transition in quantum mechanics,” Foundations of Physics , vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 23–33, 1970.
[48] W. K. Wootters and W. H. Zurek, “A single quantum cannot be cloned,” Nature, vol. 299, no. 5886, p. 802–803, 1982.
[49] C. H. Bennett and G. Brassard, “Quantum cryptography: Public key distribution and coin tossing,” Proceedings of IEEE International
Conference on Computers, Systems and Signal Processing , vol. 175, p. 8, 1984.
[50] C. H. Bennett, “Quantum cryptography using any two nonorthogonal states,” Physical review letters , vol. 68, pp. 3121–3124, May 1992.
[51] C.H.Bennett,G.Brassard,andN.D.Mermin,“Quantumcryptographywithoutbell’stheorem,” Physicalreviewletters ,vol.68,pp.557–559,
Feb 1992.
[52] F.GrosshansandP.Grangier,“Continuousvariablequantumcryptographyusingcoherentstates,” Physicalreviewletters ,vol.88,p.057902,
Jan 2002.
[53] S. Pirandola, S. Mancini, S. Lloyd, and S. L. Braunstein, “Continuous-variable quantum cryptography using two-way quantum communica-
tion,”Nature Physics , vol. 4, pp. 726–730, 9 2006.
[54] C.OttavianiandS.Pirandola,“Generalimmunityandsuperadditivityoftwo-waygaussianquantumcryptography,” ScientificReports ,vol.6,
p. 22225, 2016.
[55] A. K. Ekert, “Quantum cryptography based on bell’s theorem,” Physical review letters , vol. 67, pp. 661–663, 1991.
[56] W. Zhang, T. van Leent, K. Redeker, R. Garthoff, R. Schwonnek, F. Fertig, S. Eppelt, W. Rosenfeld, V. Scarani, C. C.-W. Lim, et al., “A
device-independent quantum key distribution system for distant users,” Nature, vol. 607, no. 7920, pp. 687–691, 2022.
[57] V.Zapatero,T.vanLeent,R.Arnon-Friedman,W.-Z.Liu,Q.Zhang,H.Weinfurter,andM.Curty,“Advancesindevice-independentquantum
key distribution,” npj quantum information , vol. 9, no. 1, p. 10, 2023.
[58] S. L. Braunstein and S. Pirandola, “Side-channel-free quantum key distribution,” Physical review letters , vol. 108, p. 130502, 2012.
[59] H.-K. Lo, M. Curty, and B. Qi, “Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution,” Physical review letters , vol. 108, p. 130503,
2012.
[60] S.Pirandola,C.Ottaviani,G.Spedalieri,C.Weedbrook,S.L.Braunstein,S.Lloyd,T.Gehring,C.S.Jacobsen,andU.L.Andersen,“High-rate
quantum cryptography in untrusted networks,” Nature Photonics , vol. 9, p. 397–402, 2015.
[61] M.Lucamarini,Z.L.Yuan,J.F.Dynes,andA.J.Shields,“Overcomingtherate-distancelimitofquantumkeydistributionwithoutquantum
repeaters,” Nature, vol. 557, pp. 400–403, 2018.
[62] S. Pirandola, R. Laurenza, C. Ottaviani, and L. Banchi, “Fundamental limits of repeaterless quantum communications,” Nature communica-
tions, vol. 8, p. 15043, 2017.
[63] S. Pirandola, “End-to-end capacities of a quantum communication network,” Communications Physics , vol. 2, p. 51, 2019.
[64] D. J. Bernstein and T. Lange, “Post-quantum cryptography,” Nature, vol. 549, no. 7671, pp. 188–194, 2017.
[65] NIST,“Nistpost-quantumcryprographystandardisation,”2024. https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/post-quantum-cryptography/
round-4-submissions .
[66] M.D.Reed,L.DiCarlo,S.E.Nigg,L.Sun,L.Frunzio,S.M.Girvin,andR.J.Schoelkopf,“Realizationofthree-qubitquantumerrorcorrection
with superconducting circuits,” Nature, vol. 482, no. 7385, pp. 382–385, 2012.
[67] E. Pednault, J. A. Gunnels, G. Nannicini, L. Horesh, and R. Wisnieff, “Leveraging secondary storage to simulate deep 54-qubit sycamore
circuits,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.09534 , 2019.
[68] N. P. De Leon, K. M. Itoh, D. Kim, K. K. Mehta, T. E. Northup, H. Paik, B. Palmer, N. Samarth, S. Sangtawesin, and D. W. Steuerman,
“Materials challenges and opportunities for quantum computing hardware,” Science, vol. 372, no. 6539, p. eabb2823, 2021.
[69] A. J. Daley, I. Bloch, C. Kokail, S. Flannigan, N. Pearson, M. Troyer, and P. Zoller, “Practical quantum advantage in quantum simulation,”
Nature, vol. 607, no. 7920, pp. 667–676, 2022.
[70] S. Biswas and P. Das, “Analysis of quantum cryptology and the RSA algorithms defense against attacks using shor’s algorithm in a post
quantum environment,” in International Conference on Computational Intelligence in Communications and Business Analytics , pp. 72–87,
Springer, 2023.
[71] L. K. Grover, “A fast quantum mechanical algorithm for database search,” in Proceedings of the twenty-eighth annual ACM symposium on
Theory of computing , pp. 212–219, 1996.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 14 of 15
Quantum Computing: Vision and Challenges
[72] S. S. Gill, A. Kumar, H. Singh, M. Singh, K. Kaur, M. Usman, and R. Buyya, “Quantum computing: A taxonomy, systematic review and
future directions,” Software: Practice and Experience , vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 66–114, 2022.
[73] M. Sisodia, “Comparison the performance of five-qubit IBM quantum computers in terms of bell states preparation,” Quantum Information
Processing , vol. 19, no. 8, p. 215, 2020.
[74] M. Piattini, M. Serrano, R. Perez-Castillo, G. Petersen, and J. L. Hevia, “Toward a quantum software engineering,” IT Professional , vol. 23,
no. 1, pp. 62–66, 2021.
[75] A. Kumar et al.,Quantum and Blockchain for Modern Computing Systems: Vision and Advancements . Springer, 2022.
[76] T.Subramanian etal.,ArtificialIntelligence,MachineLearningandBlockchaininQuantumSatellite,DroneandNetwork . CRCPress,2022.
[77] S. S. Gill, M. Xu, C. Ottaviani, P. Patros, R. Bahsoon, A. Shaghaghi, M. Golec, V. Stankovski, H. Wu, A. Abraham, et al., “Ai for next
generation computing: Emerging trends and future directions,” Internet of Things , vol. 19, p. 100514, 2022.
[78] G. K. Walia et al., “AI-empowered fog/edge resource management for iot applications: A comprehensive review, research challenges and
future perspectives,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials , 2023.
[79] A. Avižienis, J.-C. Laprie, B. Randell, and C. Landwehr, “Basic concepts and taxonomy of dependable and secure computing,” IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing , vol. 1, no. 1, p. 11 – 33, 2004.
[80] A. Paler and S. J. Devitt, “An introduction into fault-tolerant quantum computing,” in 2015 52nd ACM/EDAC/IEEE Design Automation
Conference (DAC) , pp. 1–6, 2015.
[81] R. Singh et al., “Edge AI: a survey,” Internet of Things and Cyber-Physical Systems , vol. 3, pp. 71–92, 2023.
[82] S. Wehner, D. Elkouss, and R. Hanson, “Quantum internet: A vision for the road ahead,” Science, vol. 362, no. 6412, p. eaam9288, 2018.
S S Gill et al.: Preprintversion Page 15 of 15
